README.md, before:

# 📚 Screen Time Recorder

---

### 🧠 Project Overview

The **Screen Time Recorder** helps users track and improve their actual study time by analysing screen content. The app runs in the background and uses AI to detect focus, identify difficult topics, and provide contextual support to help users study more effectively.

---

### 🎯 Objectives

- To help users develop awareness of their digital habits through meaningful data.
- To provide a privacy-focused screen time tracking tool that respects user control.
- To deliver visual insights into productivity, patterns, and activity without manual input.
- To integrate seamlessly with a browser extension that tracks sessions automatically in the background.

---

### 🏗️ Features

- **🔐 Secure Dashboard**

* Authenticated access using Google OAuth.
* Personalized view for each user’s activity.

- **🧾 Productivity Metrics**
  Productivity score (0–10) with average calculation.
  Productive vs unproductive time tracked for the selected week.

- **📊 Visual Reports**
  Pie Chart & Bar Chart to break down activity by category.
  Productivity Trends Line Graph showing duration vs productivity over time.

- **🗂️ Activity Hierarchy**
  Interactive Sunburst Chart visualizing:
  Inner ring: Activity categories
  Outer ring: Specific domains

- **📆 Activity Heatmap**
  Hour-by-hour usage mapping throughout the week.
  Highlights peak hours and low-activity slots.

- **🧠 Behavioral Insights**
  Peak active hours and most productive days.
  Checks Consistency score
  Detected usage pattern (e.g., "Flexible Schedule").

- **🔍 Recent Activity Summary**
  Tabular view of recent activities.
  Filters by category, productivity level, and duration.
  Shows domain name, session count, and timestamps.

- **🌐 Browser Extension Integration**
  Captures tab activity automatically from extension.
  Sends data to backend every 30 seconds.
  Accurate tracking with start/end time of each session.

---

### 🔧 Tech Stack

| Layer          | Tech                                |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Frontend       | React.js + Vite                     |
| Backend        | Node.js + Express                   |
| Database       | MongoDB                             |
| Authentication | JWT + Google OAuth                  |
| Visualization  | D3.js                               |
| Extension      | Chrome Extension (Manifest V3)      |
| Deployment     | Vercel (frontend), Render (backend) |

---

### 🔐 Authentication

- JSON Web Tokens (JWT) + Google OAuth
- User sessions for tracking and saving focus data
- Secure password hashing and session management
- Role-based support planned for future (students/admins)

---

### 📁 Project Structure

```shell
screentime-recorder/
├── client/                     # React Frontend (Vite)
├── server/                     # Node.js Backend (Express)
├── extension/                  # Chrome Extension (Manifest V3)
├── .env.example                # Environment variables template
├── README.md                   # Project documentation
├── package.json                # Root package configuration
└── LICENSE                     # License information
```
---

Commit message:

feat(auth): prevent auto-login before email verification and show backend verification page

README.md, after:

# 📚 Screen Time Recorder

---

### ✉️ Email verification & password reset (new)

This project now includes email verification for local registrations and password reset flows.

Environment variables (add to `.env` in project root or server .env):

- EMAIL_HOST - SMTP host (e.g. smtp.gmail.com)
- EMAIL_PORT - SMTP port (e.g. 587)
- EMAIL_SECURE - 'true' if using TLS/SSL (usually false for 587)
- EMAIL_USER - SMTP username
- EMAIL_PASS - SMTP password
- EMAIL_FROM - From address (optional)
- CLIENT_URL - Frontend URL (e.g. http://localhost:5173)

How it works:
- After local registration, a verification email is sent with a time-limited link.
- Users must verify their email before logging in (local provider).
- Users can request a password reset; a time-limited link will be emailed.

Testing locally without SMTP:
- You can omit EMAIL_HOST to skip sending emails; tokens are still generated and stored.


### 🧠 Project Overview

The **Screen Time Recorder** helps users track and improve their actual study time by analysing screen content. The app runs in the background and uses AI to detect focus, identify difficult topics, and provide contextual support to help users study more effectively.

---

### 🎯 Objectives

- To help users develop awareness of their digital habits through meaningful data.
- To provide a privacy-focused screen time tracking tool that respects user control.
- To deliver visual insights into productivity, patterns, and activity without manual input.
- To integrate seamlessly with a browser extension that tracks sessions automatically in the background.

---

### 🏗️ Features

- **🔐 Secure Dashboard**

* Authenticated access using Google OAuth.
* Personalized view for each user’s activity.

- **🧾 Productivity Metrics**
  Productivity score (0–10) with average calculation.
  Productive vs unproductive time tracked for the selected week.

- **📊 Visual Reports**
  Pie Chart & Bar Chart to break down activity by category.
  Productivity Trends Line Graph showing duration vs productivity over time.

- **🗂️ Activity Hierarchy**
  Interactive Sunburst Chart visualizing:
  Inner ring: Activity categories
  Outer ring: Specific domains

- **📆 Activity Heatmap**
  Hour-by-hour usage mapping throughout the week.
  Highlights peak hours and low-activity slots.

- **🧠 Behavioral Insights**
  Peak active hours and most productive days.
  Checks Consistency score
  Detected usage pattern (e.g., "Flexible Schedule").

- **🔍 Recent Activity Summary**
  Tabular view of recent activities.
  Filters by category, productivity level, and duration.
  Shows domain name, session count, and timestamps.

- **🌐 Browser Extension Integration**
  Captures tab activity automatically from extension.
  Sends data to backend every 30 seconds.
  Accurate tracking with start/end time of each session.

---

### 🔧 Tech Stack

| Layer          | Tech                                |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Frontend       | React.js + Vite                     |
| Backend        | Node.js + Express                   |
| Database       | MongoDB                             |
| Authentication | JWT + Google OAuth                  |
| Visualization  | D3.js                               |
| Extension      | Chrome Extension (Manifest V3)      |
| Deployment     | Vercel (frontend), Render (backend) |

---

### 🔐 Authentication

- JSON Web Tokens (JWT) + Google OAuth
- User sessions for tracking and saving focus data
- Secure password hashing and session management
- Role-based support planned for future (students/admins)

---

### 📁 Project Structure

```shell
screentime-recorder/
├── client/                     # React Frontend (Vite)
├── server/                     # Node.js Backend (Express)
├── extension/                  # Chrome Extension (Manifest V3)
├── .env.example                # Environment variables template
├── README.md                   # Project documentation
├── package.json                # Root package configuration
└── LICENSE                     # License information
```
---
